AWS Global Infrastructure:
The AWS Cloud spans 61 Availability Zones within 20 geographic regions around the world, with announced plans for 12 more Availability 
Zones and four more AWS Regions in Bahrain, Cape Town, Hong Kong SAR, and Milan.

  Regions: 
  Availablity zones:
  Edge locations:

AWS Regions provide multiple (typically 3) physically separated and isolated Availability Zones which are connected with low latency,
high throughput, and highly redundant networking. 
These Availability Zones offer AWS customers an easier and more effective way to design and operate applications and databases, 
making them more highly available, fault tolerant, and scalable than traditional singledatacenter infrastructures or multi-datacenter
infrastructures.

Each Amazon Region is designed to be completely isolated from the other Amazon Regions. 
This achieves the greatest possible fault tolerance and stability. 
Each Availability Zone is isolated, but the Availability Zones in a Region are connected through low-latency links.
AWS provides you with the flexibility to place instances and store data within multiple geographic regions as well as across multiple 
Availability Zones within each AWS Region. 
Each Availability Zone is designed as an independent failure zone. 
This means that Availability Zones are physically separated within a typical metropolitan region and are located in lower risk flood
plains (specific flood zone categorization varies by AWS Region). 
In addition to discrete uninterruptable power supply(UPS) and onsite backup generation facilities, they are each fed via different 
grids from independent utilities to further reduce single points of failure. Availability Zones are all redundantly connected to 
multiple tier-1 transit providers.

some Region & Number of Availability Zones

US East
N. Virginia (6),
Ohio (3)

US West
N. California (3),
Oregon (4)

Asia Pacific
Mumbai (2),
Seoul (2),

example

US East (Ohio):
Availability Zone Status:
us-east-2a:
Availability zone is operating normally
us-east-2b:
Availability zone is operating normally
us-east-2c:
Availability zone is operating normally
