Cloud computing is the on demand delivery of compute power, database storage, applications and other IT resource through a cloud services 
platform via the internet with pay-as-you-go pricing.

Who is using cloud computing?
Organizations of every type, size, and industry are using the cloud for a wide variety of use cases, such as data backup, disaster
recovery, email, virtual desktops, software development and testing, big data analytics, and customer-facing web applications.
For example, healthcare companies are using the cloud to develop more personalized treatments for patients. Financial services companies
are using the cloud to power real-time fraud detection and prevention. And video game makers are using the cloud to deliver online games
to millions of players around the world.

basics:
you dont need to setup high infrastructure on your prem.
you dont have to spend lot of time and money in setting up the infrastrucutre.
pay for what ever you use from the resources from the cloud
you can provision exactly the right type and size of computing resources you need to power your newest bright idea or operate your
IT department.
You can access as many resources as you need, almost instantly, and only pay for what you use.

Six Advantages and Benefits of Cloud Computing

Trade capital expense for variable expense
Instead of having to invest heavily in data centers and servers before you know how you’re going to use them,
you can only pay when you consume computing resources, and only pay for how much you consume.

Benefit from massive economies of scale
By using cloud computing, you can achieve a lower variable cost than you can get on your own.
Because usage from hundreds of thousands of customers are aggregated in the cloud, providers such as Amazon Web Services can achieve 
higher economies of scale which translates into lower pay as you go prices.

Stop guessing capacity
Eliminate guessing on your infrastructure capacity needs. When you make a capacity decision prior to deploying an application,
you often either end up sitting on expensive idle resources or dealing with limited capacity. 
With cloud computing, these problems go away. You can access as much or as little as you need, and scale up and down as required with
only a few minutes notice.
 
Increase speed and agility
In a cloud computing environment, new IT resources are only ever a click away, which means you reduce the time it takes to make those 
resources available to your developers from weeks to just minutes. 
This results in a dramatic increase in agility for the organization, since the cost and time it takes to experiment and develop 
is significantly lower.

Stop spending money on running and maintaining data centers
Focus on projects that differentiate your business, not the infrastructure. Cloud computing lets you focus on your own customers, 
rather than on the heavy lifting of racking, stacking and powering servers.

Go global in minutes
Easily deploy your application in multiple regions around the world with just a few clicks. This means you can provide a lower latency 
and better experience for your customers simply and at minimal cost.


Types of Cloud Computing
Cloud computing has three main types that are commonly referred to as 
Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), 
Platform as a Service (PaaS), and 
Software as a Service (SaaS).

Cloud computing deployment mode:
Cloud
A cloud-based application is fully deployed in the cloud and all parts of the application run in the cloud. Applications in the cloud 
have either been created in the cloud or have been migrated from an existing infrastructure to take advantage of the benefits of cloud computing.

Hybrid
A hybrid deployment is a way to connect infrastructure and applications between cloud-based resources and existing resources that are 
not located in the cloud. The most common method of hybrid deployment is between the cloud and existing on-premises infrastructure to 
extend, and grow, an organization's infrastructure into the cloud while connecting cloud resources to the internal system.

On-premises
The deployment of resources on-premises, using virtualization and resource management tools, is sometimes called the “private cloud.”
On-premises deployment doesn’t provide many of the benefits of cloud computing but is sometimes sought for its ability to provide 
dedicated resources.
