AWS consists of many cloud services that you can use in combinations tailored to your business or organizational needs. 
To access the services, you can use the AWS Management Console, the Command Line Interface, or Software Development Kits (SDKs).
AWS Management Console
Access and manage Amazon Web Services through the AWS Management Console, a simple and intuitive user interface. You can also use the AWS
Console Mobile Application to quickly view resources on the go.
AWS Command Line Interface
The AWS Command Line Interface (CLI) is a unified tool to manage your AWS services. With just one tool to download and configure, you can 
control multiple AWS services from the command line and automate them through scripts.
Software Development Kits
Our Software Development Kits (SDKs) simplify using AWS services in your applications with an Application Program Interface (API) tailored
to your programming language or platform.

Analytics
Amazon Athena:
Amazon Athena is an interactive query service that makes it easy to analyze data in Amazon S3 using standard SQL.
Athena is serverless, so there is no infrastructure to manage, and you pay only for the queries that you run.
Athena is easy to use. Simply point to your data in Amazon S3, define the schema, and start querying using standard SQL.
Most results are delivered within seconds.
With Athena, there’s no need for complex extract, transform, and load (ETL) jobs to prepare your data for analysis. This makes it easy for
anyone with SQL skills to quickly analyze large-scale datasets.
Athena is out-of-the-box integrated with AWS Glue Data Catalog, allowing you to create a unified metadata repository across various 
services, crawl data sources to discover schemas and populate your Catalog with new and modified table and partition definitions, and
maintain schema versioning. 

Amazon EMR:
Amazon EMR provides a managed Hadoop framework that makes it easy, fast, and cost-effective to process vast amounts of data across
dynamically scalable Amazon EC2 instances. 
You can also run other popular distributed frameworks such as Apache Spark, HBase, Presto, and Flink in Amazon EMR, and interact
with data in other AWS data stores such as Amazon S3 and Amazon DynamoDB.
EMR Notebooks, based on the popular Jupyter Notebook, provide a development and collaboration environment for ad hoc querying and
exploratory analysis.
Amazon EMR securely and reliably handles a broad set of big data use cases, including log analysis, web indexing, data transformations
(ETL), machine learning, financial analysis, scientific simulation, and bioinformatics.

Amazon CloudSearch
Amazon CloudSearch is a managed service in the AWS Cloud that makes it simple and cost-effective to set up, manage, and scale a search 
solution for your website or application. Amazon CloudSearch supports 34 languages and popular search features such as highlighting, 
autocomplete, and geospatial

Amazon Elasticsearch Service
Amazon Elasticsearch Service makes it easy to deploy, secure, operate, and scale Elasticsearch to search, analyze, and visualize data
in real-time. With Amazon Elasticsearch Service, you get easy-to-use APIs and real-time analytics capabilities to power use-cases such 
as log analytics, full-text search, application monitoring, and clickstream analytics, with enterprise-grade availability, scalability,
and security. The service offers integrations with opensource tools like Kibana and Logstash for data ingestion and visualization. It
also integrates seamlessly with other AWS services such as Amazon Virtual Private Cloud (Amazon VPC), AWS Key Management System (AWS KMS),
Amazon Kinesis Data Firehose, AWS Lambda, AWS Identity and Access Management (IAM), Amazon Cognito, and Amazon CloudWatch, so that you
can go from raw data to actionable insights quickly.
