Simple storage service(S3):
1. object based storage service.
2. Serverless storage in the cloud.
3. dont worry about filesystem or disk space.

what is object storage or object based storage:
its a data sotrage archicture that manage data as objects as opposed to other storage like 
file systems which manage data as files and hirarchy.
and block storage which manages data as blocks within sectors and tracks.

S3 provide an unlimited storage.
S3 console provides an interface to upload and access data.

S3 objects:
objects contains the data. they are like files. S3 can store data from 0 B to 5TB in size.
object may consists of 
1. key: name of the object
2. value: the data itself made up of sequence of bytes.
3. version id:  when versioning enabled, version of the object.
4. metadata: additional information attached to the object.

S3 Buckets:
Buckets holds objects. buckets can have folders which in turn holds objects.

S3 is the universal namespace. so buckets names must be unique (think like haveing a domain name)

Storage classes
Standard (default) = 99.999% Availability, fast and replicated among 3 availability zones
Intelligent Tiering = Stored objects are analyzed via machine learning to decide which storage class is used automatically. In the end 
the most cost effective tiering is used for your data without any additional overhead
Standard Infrequently Accessed = Cheap for objects that don’t get accessed more than once in a month. Amazon applies additional 
retrieval fee.
One Zone Infrequent Access = Objects are stored only in one availability zone with a lower availability(99.5%). Additional retrieval 
fee is applied. Cheaper than Standard IA.
Glacier = Long term cold storage: Cheap and it can take minutes to hours to read objects.
Glacier Deep Archive = Cheapest storage, but up to 12 hours for object access.

Security
Public/Private = New created Buckets are private by default (Block all public acces in the UI)!
Logging = Every request to a Bucket can be logged. The log files are stored in a different S3 Bucket :), even different AWS account is 
possible.
Access control = Managed by Bucket policies:
Allow read only access for anonymous users:
{
   "Version":"2012-10-17",
   "Statement":[
      {
         "Sid":"PublicRead",
         "Effect":"Allow",
         "Principal":"*",
         "Action":[
            "s3:GetObject"
         ],
         "Resource":[
            "arn:aws:s3:::examplebucket/*"
         ]
      }
   ]
}
You can generate Bucket policies with the AWS policy generator UI: https://awspolicygen.s3.amazonaws.com/policygen.html
Encryption
Traffic(Requests) between your client and the Bucket are encrypted via SSL/TLS.
To encrypt your objects you can do it on the client side and upload already encrpyted files or use server side encryption from AWS:

SSE Encryption by AWS
SSE-AES: AWS manages the key and uses the advanced encryption Standard with a block size of 256 bits.
SSE-KMS: Envelope encryption, your key is encrypted by another key and you and AWS KMS manage the keys.
SSE-C: Client/Customer provides the key
Data consistency
New objects PUTS (Read after write consistency)= After uploading a new object you can read it immediately after writing
Overwrite or Delete (Eventual consistency) = S3 needs to replicate the changes to multiple availability zones. You might get an old 
object if you read it immediately after writing.
Cross Region Replication
Higher durability, because an uploaded object is automatically replicated to another region e.g. upload to us-east-1 and replicates to 
eu-central-1. Versioning needs to be enabled on the source and the destination region! Replicating from the US to another region in 
Europe can minimize the access latency for customers sitting in Europe for example.


Versioning

Overwriting an object creates a new version and you can restore the previous if necessary
Deleting an object inserts a delete marker and you get a 404 response if you want to access the object now

If versioning is enabled you can only suspend it, so existing versions stay
Multi factor authentication is supported to delete a version of an object. Works only with versioning.
Object Lifecycle Management
Automate the process of changing the storage class or deleting objects e.g. move to Glacier after 365 days
Works with versioning (Use current and/or previous versions)
Delete all files after 20 days
Transfer Acceleration
When you upload large files across continents you can upload the data to an Edge location(Distinct URL) of CloudFront and AWS routes 
the data 
internally over an optimized network path(Amazon backbone network) to the S3 Bucket.
The s3 accelerated domain name looks like this:
bucketname.s3-accelerate.amazonaws.com
Presigned URLs
Enables temporary access to update or download an object. Imagine a login area of your application where users can download a file and 
you can generate a presigned url that gives temporary access for 10 seconds without the need of any AWS credentials for the user. With 
the console you can do it like this:
aws s3 presign s3://awsexamplebucket/test.txt --expires-in 600
The output url will look like this:
https://awsexamplebucket.s3.amazonaws.com/test.txt?AWSAccessKeyId=AKIAEXAMPLEACCESSKEY&Signature=EXHCcBe%EXAMPLEKnz3r8O0AgEXAMPLE&Expires=1555531131
